We still have to,
TypeScript's gonna be angry with us.
And what we're gonna need to do for
the next little bit is to make
TypeScript less mad at us.
So, first thing that it
is mad at us about is,
well color swatch doesn't
need anything anymore.
Color sliders also doesn't
need anything any more,
either I'll comment out the inputs for
now, we'll get to those in a second.
But we still have this problem that I just
kinda hand waved to and ignored there for
a second there, which is, okay.
Yeah, no, I'm not okay with this.
Because we don't know what it's gonna be.
So we could say that listen, we can do it,
we didn't sell this the same way we solved
with some of that state,
you state stuff before.
We can say listen, yeah, it can either
be the RGBContextType or it can be null.
Look, everything's mostly okay,
here, right now.
But not everywhere,
because now it doesn't know
if these properties exist on this object,
right?
Because if you're trying to pull red,
green and blue off of null,
you're gonna crash, and
TypeScript doesn't know how to save
you from yourself in this case, right?
And so you could do something where
we comment, let's copy this, and
we'll comment it out for
a second and we'll just say,
Just name it something, right?
It's, this can be value,
or it can be null.
Test group has,
i believe this is in JavaScript now, too,
where you could say something like,
console.log, value.
?.blue, which is basically,
if value exists,
then pull the blue property off of it,
right?
And if you swapped out everything in
your code base to use value, ?.blue,
you would appease TypeScript, because
all TypeScript is trying to say is,
I cannot promise you that it's not null.
And I can't let you just call
this property because just
because JavaScript lets
you doesn't mean I can't,
in good conscience, let you call this.
And so it's saying, please just make
sure it's there before you use it.
So it doesn't work, and you could do this
all throughout your code base forever.
My argument to you is just
going to be don't, right?
And so that's where we have
some other options here,
to have TypeScript be less angry.
Because to be clear,
TypeScript's not wrong.
Many of us have been caught by
bugs just as insidious where it's,
such and such is not a property
on undefined, right?
It's happened in a JavaScript code base
before that you have thought something was
an object when it's not.
So as much as it seems kind of annoying,
it's not too bad, it's a good idea.
So one of things that we can do is
TypeScript has this keyword called as,
and as allows you, To, say listen.
I understand what you think
is a type system, but
this is a situation where I know better,
and just trust me.
So we could say here's an empty object.
And we're gonna say but just pretend
that it's an RGB context type, right?
And because the default value
is now an empty object,
calling those properties
is not problematic.
It's not gonna blow up,
they'll just be undefined,
which could be problematic
in your code base.
But really, we know that this is
effectively set on the next line, right?
We are confident, we, in this case,
find it within our power to
override type scripts like
built-in mechanisms,
cuz we know what we're doing.
Another place where you might
find yourself using this is in
that character cards that we had earlier.
The alignment when only ever good or
bad, but
TypeScript is assumed
that it was a string.
And so if you pulled it from an API,
TypeScript might not be able to know that.
But you could be, listen,
this JavaScript object,
I know that it's going to be this type,
that it's only good or bad.
Trust me, even though you just got this
JSON response back from the server.
So it's times where you
have enough confidence.
You feel that you're able to take
a little bit of the risk here to know
that maybe the property read
is not on here just yet, but
we know this isn't even
a asynchronous event.
So we know in case it's happening.
There is a third way to do this.
I'll kinda just tell you what it is now,
but
we need to know a few more things
before we can implement it without you
just staring at me, yeah, great,
he's writing complete gibberish.
But the other way is to kind of
create an abstraction that will,
in the same way we had to check
to see if value was null or not.
We could create our own useContext that
checks to see if it's defined before it
lets us use anything, and just take all
those checks and put it in one place.
That is arguably the correct answer.
To be clear, this is what we do,
we know in this case.
If you didn't need dispatch,
you could say you can even define a green,
red, green and blue value here,
and only put in dispatch lane.
There's lots of ways to handle this.
Generally speaking, I think that this
will do the trick most of the time but
understand you're taking on
a certain amount of risk.
So yeah, that is some of the problems
that come with the fact that
a lot of the safety and
benefits here are really good.
But we are ultimately building
on top of a language and
platform that wasn't always
immediately there for this.
So one of the things the problem
we have to solve for, and
again the very beginning of this course,
right?
Yeah, just say that your strings
are gonna be strings, everything's great.
Where are the pain points with React and
TypeScript start to come along
is when you start to do some of
the more advanced React patterns.
Cuz like most things, the easy
things are easy, and the weird cases
are when you try to do some things that
are a little bit trickier, all right?
So if we look, our color sliders and
our color inputs are roughly the same.
We're just basically using, we're
defaulting to the built-in HTML elements.
So this is an input with
the type range this one,
the color slider, this is one,
yeah, type range.
And then the color input is just
a regular type number, right?
But other than that they're
mostly the same other,
than some formatting and stuff that.
It'd be great and then the sliders floor
I'll just create the red, green and
blue for each.
I'll show them to you real quick.
So color sliders, yeah,
it's just three of them,
color inputs is roughly the same thing.
Would it be nice if I could just
use them kind of interchangeably?
And one of the things that we
can notice is that previously,
the sliders we took over the individual
side was actually still to this moment.
Take ID label and value, we're gonna
need an on change in there as well,
the inputs right now don't do anything.
And the slider, it is id label value and
then the on change that we're
gonna put in both places.
It'd be great if I could create
an abstraction here, right?
I would love to just be able to say hey,
they take roughly the same props,
or in a few minutes
exactly the same props.
Wouldn't it be nice to simply define,
okay,
here's the props that I'm expecting that
are kind of similar to both of them.
And just say like, all right, for you,
I wanna say here's the color input
component, make me the three
of them wire them up.
For you, color sliders, do the same.
So one might think, no,
I had to specifically type everything,
there's no way that I can be dynamic
with what component I pass in and
have it conditionally rendered, right?
All right, so let's, let's take a look
at the next one that I wanted to
show you which is that's the wrong one.
Not right?
So let's make a new one
called color adjustment.
And so okay,
we're gonna have an interface here.
It could be a type, and
this is gonna be our AdjustmentinputProps.
And what [INAUDIBLE] id
is gonna be a string.
A label is going to be a string,
Value will be a number,
and then on change.
Is going to be an event, and
we know that it's gonna be a change
event from HTML input elements.
Luckily, they're both HTML input elements.
And that's going to return void,
so we have this common type now.
And what we're gonna say is listen,
you can pass me in any component that
you want as long as it
adheres to this interface.
You wanna use this color input, fine.
You wanna use a color slider?
As long as you pass in a component to
this corner we're building right now that
adheres to this interface,
we'll be able to work with it dynamically.
So then, the props for rendering,
the three will be an interface,
color adjustment props,
just like we've seen before.
And again, this is really
gonna take one thing which is,
what component that I want to render.
And I'm using capital A cuz I'm
gonna talk about a React component.
And so, this is one that we'll use,
called React.
We're gonna talk about these
in a second a little bit more.
I'm just kinda introducing the topic
now of what we call utility types.
So React.ComponentType is,
Saying, okay,
I got pull in react, hold on.
Input.
From react and then adjust it,
let's go with adjustment.
I like that one, better,
what we're gonna say is the type
of the prop that we're expecting.
Previously, we've seen string,
number, boolean.
Some objects, we're gonna say is,
the adjustment prop on this
component can be any component that
adheres to these properties up here.
All right, so
as long as we pass in something,
a component that has the same interface,
we can pass it in dynamically.
So let's actually just grab,
I'm gonna grab the color sliders.
Real quick, and
I'm gonna reuse most of this code.
So we'll just grab that and paste it in.
And at this point,
we do need to pull in react.use.context.
And we'll import RGB context as well.
Context, sweet, the only thing that's
blowing up right now is I haven't pulled
in the color component cuz we don't
actually wanna use the color slider yet.
What we want to do is whatever
adjustment has been passed in.
So we know that the only prop
that this takes is adjustment.
And here we'll say,
Yeah, that's just our
color adjustment props.
And then we can swap it out saying
whatever component is passed in,
instead of rendering three color sliders,
do whatever component was passed in.
Right, so this works, we just need to
use it, so we can kind of swap it out.
So go into application and
we're gonna say is
instead of color sliders
we're gonna say color.
Yep, wait for it,
Import color adjustment,
Color adjustment,
the values are in red, that's fine.
But yeah, my suspicion when autocomplete
didn't work is that I didn't export it.
Or I called it, All right,
that should work now.
So we've got color adjustment, and
now we can basically say all right,
instead of saying color sliders plural,
what I want you to be is a color slider.
I'm sorry, ColorAdjustment.
And the adjustment component is
gonna be a singular color slider.
All right, and then we can go ahead,
we put more of those in there.
I can also change this to a color,
Input, and it will render both of them.
So now, I can just make changes to this
one kinda higher order-ish component, and,
it's not hard coded as you can only have
stuff to put in anything that confirms.
To this adjustment input
props will work and
we can start dynamically
passing in react components.
Well, as we just need to figure out what
React gives us in this case as well.
And so that came from the utility
type of React.component type.